------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Third International Conference on Formal Structures for
Computation and Deduction (FSCD18)

Minutes on the General Meeting - July 12th, 2018, 14:00 (Oxford, UK)

Chair: Luke Ong
Secretary: Jerome Jochems
------------------------------------------------------------------------ 

Agenda:

1. Welcome by Steering Committee Chair, Luke Ong
2. Report of FSCD18 PC Chair, Helene Kirchner
3. Report of FSCD18 Conference Chair, Paula Severi
4. Election of two Steering Committee members
5. Progress Report of FSCD19
  - PC Chair: Herman Geuvers
  - Conference Chair: Jakob Rehof
6. Proposal to host FSCD20 (colocating with IJCAR20) in Paris:
  - Stefano Guerrini and Giulio Manzonetto
7. Election result + Any Other Business
8. Handover to new SC Chair (2018-2021), Delia Kesner.

------------------------------------------------------------------------ 

1. Welcome by Steering Committee Chair, Luke Ong

Luke Ong welcomed everyone to the meeting.

He summarised the role of the SC as looking after the general well-being 
of the conference and its direction of travel. The most important task 
of the SC is appointing the PC chair, followed by appointing the 
conference chair.

2. Report of FSCD18 PC Chair, Helene Kirchner

Helene Kirchner gave her report as PC chair.

She gave an overview of the programme that consisted of the Corrado Böhm 
memorial on day 1, 4 invited talks, 15 affiliated workshops, and the 
results of the confluence competition. Proceedings are available online.

She presented statistics on this year's submissions. The number of 
submissions is slightly lower than in the past two years, the acceptance 
rate a bit higher at 42% (acceptance rates of FLoC18 conferences range 
from 29 to 57%). Most papers were reviewed 3 times. The rebuttal phase is 
found useful for reaching consensus.

This year there were 3 systems papers submitted compared to 0 last 
year of which 1 was accepted. The page limit of 6 on the systems papers 
may be a factor in the low number of submissions. Helene suggested to 
consider increasing the limit to 15 pages as for the regular papers.

Helene described the criteria for the Junior Researcher Award. This year 
15 papers were eligible. The prize was won by Ambrus Kaposi and András 
Kovács for their paper "A Syntax for Higher Inductive-Inductive Types", 
for which Helene awarded them each a certificate and a cheque.

She thanked all contributors to and participants in FSCD18.

3. Report of FSCD18 Conference Chair, Paula Severi

Paula Severi gave her report as Conference Chair.

This year, FSCD had 424 total registrations with 100 registrations for 
the main conference. The number of registrations for workshops has 
increased significantly with 324 this year compared to 60 and 155 in 
2016 and 2017, respectively. There was an increase in the number of 
workshops as well, all but one held before the main conference.

She showed a breakdown of the registrants per continent.

This year's fees were significantly higher, the workshop fees having 
more than doubled since last year. This was a consequence of FLoC.

Paula summarised her report as follows: the main conference had fewer 
registrations, the workshops more. FLoC handled the organisation and 
as a consequence the fees were higher.

There was a request to distribute the slides of this meeting. Luke Ong 
pointed out that the slides and minutes will be on the FCSD webpage.

Luke Ong thanked the PC Chair and Conference Chair on behalf of the 
community.

4. Election of two Steering Committee members

Luke Ong explained that the SC consists of 3 past PC co-chairs and 6 
elected members. 2 new members were to be elected. There were 5 
candidates each of which had submitted a 1 page statement available on 
the webpage in advance of the conference. He presented an URL to the 
rules of governance.

The candidates were: Mauricio Ayala-Rincón, Eduardo Bonelli, Stefano 
Guerrini, Cynthia Kop, and Olivier Laurent.

Each attendee of the general meeting had 2 votes to be distributed over 
the 5 candidates: 2 votes for a single candidate, or 1 vote each for 
2 different candidates. The candidates with the greatest and second 
greatest number of votes were to be elected. Voting was conducted by 
secret ballot.

(Announcement of results under 7.)

5. Progress Report of FSCD19
  - PC Chair: Herman Geuvers
  - Conference Chair: Jakob Rehof

5.1 PC Chair: Herman Geuvers

Herman Geuvers sends his apologies. There is a preliminary call for 
papers for FCSD19.

5.2 Conference Chair: Jakob Rehof

Jakob Rehof updated the community on the progress for FSCD19 in 
Dortmund, Germany.

The dates are fixed at 24/25 to 30 June 2019. The venue "Dortmunder U" 
has been secured. Accommodation is available in the city centre.

He described the history of the Ruhr area and of the venue. The venue 
has a main theatre with 174 seats and several smaller conference rooms. 
There are several airports close by.

Jakob intends to employ Easy Conferences (also employed by ICALP16 in 
Rome) as a conference agency. This caused some problems with some 
German regulations but this is now resolved.

He showed a preliminary schedule with the main conference running June 
25-28, 4 workshops to run parallel to the conference, and 8 more after. 
Some overlap between the workshops and the main conference is 
inevitable due to constraints on the venue. 

He anticipates around 12 workshops and invited discussion about this 
via email. As a backup the 24th could be used at TU Dortmund (reachable 
by public transport), or at a single floor in the Dortmunder U. Renting 
the entire venue that day is expensive due to a staff holiday.

He suggested Zeche Zollverein as location for a social event.

6. Proposal to host FSCD20 (colocating with IJCAR20) in Paris:
  - Stefano Guerrini and Giulio Manzonetto

Luke Ong explained that one of the duties of the SC is to consider 
proposals for FCSD(n+2). 

Stefano Guerrini presented his proposal to host FCSD20 in Paris.

The conference would be hosted by Université Paris 13 and Sorbonne 
Paris Cité, and organised by LIPN and Insitut Galilee. The venue would 
be Maison des Science de l'Homme on the new Condorcet campus in Paris 
Nord. The dates would be June 29 until July 2 2020, with workshops on 
June 28 and July 3-4.

He gave an overview of Université Paris 13. The main organising 
research group would be the LoVe (logic and verificaton) team, with 4 
additional research groups which may be interested. He introduced 
supporting organisations INRIA and the Parsival team.

The venue has an auditorium that seats 300 people, a theatre that seats 
140, and smaller conference rooms. There is also space for people to 
work and collaborate in. It would be possible to record and/or stream 
sessions.

There are 2 main airports and 1 cheaper airport (Beauvois) close by, as 
well as train station Gare du Nord. Stefano presented an overview of 
Paris's extensive public transport. A metro station is 3 minutes away 
from the venue as well as bus stops. Accommodation is available in all 
price ranges. Cheaper student accommodation may be available 35 minutes 
away.

He suggested several options for social events.

The fees would be 320-360 EUR for the main conferences, and 50 EUR per 
day for workshops. He presented a budget projection and contributions 
from supporting organisations.

He is open to propositions to extend the conference with e.g. poster 
presentations, student sessions, demo sessions, that sponsors may be 
interested in.

An attendee asked whether they would be a joint session with IJCAR. 
Luke Ong replied that this is a question for the PC. He thinks it is a 
good idea. Stefano Guerrini said that there is room to do so.

Luke Ong added that the IJCAR SC has accepted the proposal to colocate, 
so that unless someone objects we can continue.

7. Announcement of Election Outcome + Any Other Business

Luke Ong announced the results of the election. Results were as follows.

Mauricio Ayala-Rincón: 23
Eduardo Bonelli: 7
Stefano Guerrini: 21
Cynthia Kop: 26
Olivier Laurent: 17

Cynthia Kop and Mauricio Ayala-Rincón were elected to the SC for 3 
years effective immediately.

Frederic Blanqui announced the International School on Rewriting 1-5 
July 2019 in Paris. He welcomes lecture proposals on all aspects of 
rewriting and its applications.

The attendees were reminded of the FCSD website and are invited to join 
the mailinglist.

8. Handover to new SC Chair (2018-2021), Delia Kesner.

Luke Ong thanked Helene Kirchner, Paula Severi, this year's 
organisation, the SC, and his students present at the meeting, the 
members of the community, and the authors of this year's papers.

He gave the floor to succeeding SC chair Delia Kesner.

Delia Kesner thanked Luke Ong and is happy to be the next SC chair. She 
presented her thanks in the form of an extremely short paper.

Her motivations are the same as Luke's, which is to expand on 
predecessor conferences RTA and TLCA. Her main theorem stated that Luke 
Ong is a polymorphic SC chair. She presented a cloud of words related 
to FCSD and the SC as a certified proof of her theorem.

Delia concluded her paper with thanks to Luke Ong for his work for the 
community, and closed the meeting.
