--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fifth International Conference on Formal Structures for Computation and
Deduction (FSCD20)

Minutes on the General Meeting - July 3rd, 2020, 16:30-18:00 (virtual
Zoom session)

Chair: Delia Kesner
Secretary: Cynthia Kop

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDA

- Welcome by Steering Committee Chair: Delia Kesner

- Election of two Steering Committee members
  * Outgoing members: Carsten Fuhs and Sam Staton
  * Candidates:
    Silvia Ghilezan, Stefano Guerrini, Temur Kutsia, Giulio Manzonetto

- Report of FSCD'20 (Paris, France)
  * PC Chair: Zena Ariola
  * Conference Chair: Stefano Guerrini
  * Workshop Chair: Giulio Manzonetto

- Small information session on FSCD'22 at FLoC (Haifa, Israel)
  * PC Chair: Amy Felty
  * Conference Chair: Nachum Dershowitz

- Progress report on FSCD'21 (Buenos Aires, Argentina)
  * PC Chair: Naoki Kobayashi
  * Conference Chair: Alejandro Diaz-Caro
  * Discussion on virtual/hybrid organization of FSCD'21
  * Discussion on virtual/hybrid organization of future FSCDs (≥ 2023)

- AOB

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Welcome by Steering Committee Chair: Delia Kesner

Delia Kesner welcomed everyone to the meeting and announced the agenda.

She explains that the election will be unusual, since it will only
take place after the meeting has completed.  This is because the
voting feature in Zoom is not available to people connected from their
browser, and it was not desirable to exclude people.  Instead, the
vote will be done in a third-party application called Belenios, using
the e-mail addresses of everyone who was present at the general
meeting.

2. Election

Two elected members from the Steering Committee are leaving this year,
having finished their three-year term: Carsten Fuhs and Sam Staton.
Four candidates are available for this position: Silvia Ghilezan,
Stefano Guerrini, Temur Kutsia, Giulio Manzonetto.

Information on the SC is available at:
  https://fscd-conference.org/organization/steering-committee
Candidate statements are available at:
  https://fscd2020.org/sc-election

The electronic vote will be on Belenios.  Everyone attending the general
meeting will receive two e-mails shortly afterwards, one with a
username/password and one with credentials and instructions.  The vote
will be open for 24 hours.  Candidates should be ranked 1-4.
Damiano Mazza and Carsten Fuhs will be available to handle issues.

(Announcement of the result under 8.)

3. Report of FSCD'20

* Report by the PC Chair, Zena Ariola:

The PC had 35 members from 16 countries, including 11 women.

Both regular papers and system descriptions were given 15 pages (plus 5
pages appendix for regular papers), and 16 pages for the final version.

The deadline was postponed four days, but this was effective: during the
delay, 40 additional abstracts were submitted, of which 26 led to a paper
submission, and 12 were accepted.  In total, only 81% of abstracts led to
a paper submission.  The overall submission and acceptance rate was very
similar to 2016.  France led in both number of submissions and number of
accepted papers.  There were 25 single-author papers; 6 of these were
accepted.

Most papers had 3 reviews, although some had 4 or 5.  Following the
rebuttal phase, there were very lively discussions, with reviews and
scores getting modified; in the end, there was no need for a vote since
the decision on all papers was clear.

For the best paper awards for a junior researcher, the eligible papers
were those where one of the authors had a PhD award date at most 3 years
in the past, and for which the other authors declared that this junior
researcher had done at least 50% of the work.  Of the eligible candidates,
7 had an average score of 1.6 or higher.  As the PC members found it
difficult to compare between a single-author paper with a paper
co-authored with an established researcher, two awards were given.
Due to good reviewer comments, a new award was created for best system
description for junior researchers, which had two eligible candidates.

The proceedings are published as volume 167 of LIPIcs, at
  https://drops.dagstuhl.de/opus/portals/lipics/index.php?semnr=16152
Zena comments on the excellent support from Michael Wagner and Michael
Didas.  A special issue in LMCS is planned for the top papers.

For the invited speakers, 87 names were originally submitted; the PC vote
led to René Thiemann, Simona Ronchi della Rocca, Andrew Pitts and Brigitte
Pientka.  Two of these speakers contributed a paper, which went through a
light reviewing process.

Zena concluded by expressing her thanks to Delia, Sandra, Stefano and
other members of the program committee all of whom contributed to the
success of the event.

* Report by the Conference Chair, Stefano Guerrini

Initially, the combined FSCD/IJCAR conferences were planned in a new and
modern conference center in northern Paris; there were 23 workshop
proposals accepted which led to the addition of an extra workshop day. The
organizers expected about 300-400 participants for FSCD/IJCAR, and about
500-600 for the workshops.

However, existing plans for the conference organization and social events
were put on hold when the COVID outbreak hit Italy in February, and in
March the decision was made to move to a fully virtual conference.  Some
workshops opted to cancel or postpone, but 16 still wished to join the
virtual conference.

There were many decisions to be made.  After some discussion with the SCs
of the main conferences, Zoom was chosen as the video tool.  There would
be live talks (following the structure of a traditional conference), but
participants could submit a recorded talk as an alternative.  Safety was a
key concern; for example avoiding zoom bombers and supporting participants
who would prefer not to install the software.  Unfortunately, this did
penalise socialising.  In the end, the main conferences and larger
workshops used a webinar model, while smaller workshops used a meeting
model (which allows for more interaction).  In the business meeting, more
interaction was allowed by just promoting everyone to panelist.

Since the model is new, there were many lessons to be learnt.  Authors and
chairs were contacted for testing/practicing sessions. And the organizers
also had their own testing and practice to do.

Budget-wise: many hard expenses vanished in the virtual model; the
concrete cost was less than 2000 euros for Zoom, 2220 euros for
lipics, around 800 euros for EasyChair and 1800 euros for the awards
(and could have been less; not all bought features were used).
However, there were also new costs that were unaccounted for.  In
particular, there is much more active and skilled work needed during
the conference, as well as technical infrastructure (e.g., hosting
multiple zoom sessions required a setup with multiple laptops).  This
task has largely been done by the main organizers and thus does not
appear in the budget, but arguably this should be done by a
professional company, which would be very expensive.

There were many problems and misunderstandings with Zoom sales and
customer care.  They only got access to the full platform on 26 June,
which means that configurations and final tests could only be done in the
weekend before the event.  Also, EasyChair did not include an important
feature that they had paid for: the integrated program.  Thus, they had to
implement their own tool for the integrated program.

On the upside, there were very few technical issues, and the quality of
Zoom was good.  However, Zoom is not really adapted to this kind of event,
for instance making it hard to switch between sessions or (for the
organizers) to control multiple sessions in parallel.

In the end, there were about 1000 participants pre-registered for
FSCD-IJCAR, and about 300 people registered on each track via Zoom.

In the end, organization was a very stressing and tiring job, but they are
happy with the results.

* Report by the Workhop Chair, Giulio Manzonetto

Originally 11 FSCD workshops were planned and 12 IJCAR workshops,
including two new workshops.  Due to the COVID crisis, 5 IJCAR workshops
were dropped or postponed, and 1 FSCD workshop; the others opted to join
the virtual event.

There were quite a few pre-registrations for the workshops.  Not all
pre-registered members participated in the end, but the overall turnout
was still good.

We have not been the target of Zoom bombers, likely due to (a) having
restrictive but safe configurations, and (b) links being sent by private
email only one day in advance.  The coffee break common rooms were
unfortunately not very successful.

For next year, Giulio recommends hiring external technical support, and
adding Slack for asynchronous communication.

4. Small information session on FSCD'22 at FLoC (Haifa, Israel)

* Report by the Conference Chair, Nachum Dershowitz

FSCD'22 is scheduled to be held in August 2022 in northern Israel, at the
Technion on Mount Carmel.  It will be part of the Federation Logic
Conference.  This will be the eight FLoC.

Despite the current COVID crisis, planning for the event is continuing.
The kick-off meeting for all conference chairs has been postponed to 2021
(rather than this autumn); however, everyone is hopeful that the event can
take place in a non-virtual way.

5. Progress report on FSCD'21 (Buenos Aires, Argentina)

* Report by the PC Chair, Naoki Kobayashi

The first call for papers has already gone out; it is much the same as in
previous years.  The abstract submission deadline will be on 12 February;
the submission deadline on 15 February.  The rebuttal and notification
will be in April, with the final version to be submitted on 3 May.

* Report by the Conference Chair, Alejandro Diaz-Caro

Next year's conference will be 19-25 July, in Buenos Aires.  It will take
place in a new, modern building, the "Cero + Infinito".

The conference will be organized in a hybrid model: local talks will be
streamed, and speakers may give talks over a video conferencing tool that
are projected for local participatns.  Several other conferences are
currently planning a similar setup.  This setup has the dual advantage
that it is more inclusive to people who do not have the funds or health or
freedom to travel, and that it is relatively easy to move to a fully
virtual conference if it seems unlikely that a phsyical conference cannot
take place.  If this indeed seems unlikely, the organizers will decide by
February (before the deadline) to move to a virtual conference.

6. A discussion on future conferences

Delia proposed to start a discussion on two questions:
* Do you agree with the hybrid model for FSCD'21?
* What would be an ideal conference model for FSCD after FLoC?

This led to a large discussion, both with speakers on the microphone and
in parallel many good arguments in the chat.

There was almost universal agreement that a hybrid conference model is a
good idea, not only for FSCD'21 but also permanently.  Compared to a fully
virtual model, it allows for a greater degree of interaction.  Compared
to a traditional conference, it is more inclusive for people who have a
limited ability to travel (be it for budget, health, visa or family
reasons), and much better for the environment.  However, there is the risk
that only richer research groups can send people to conferences.

Some people did raise issues that need to be taken into account in
designing such a hybrid model, however:

* Clément Aubert pointed out that we may need our own (open-source)
  technical solutions for the long term. If we rely too much on Zoom,
  EasyChair or other outside service, we risk being locked in to a
  private system that may change its conditions on a whim.
* Carsten Fuhs pointed out that various ingredients for hybrid conferences
  are already there: ICFP 2017 broadcasted talks and allowed questions via
  Slack, and PLDI provided places for socialising by moving an avatar into
  a virtual room.
* Lorenzo Tortora suggested that it may be worthwhile to make conferences
  longer, which would both allow the people who do attend more time for
  interaction, and make it easier for those who do not to view all the
  talks they are interested in.  Alejandro Diaz-Caro noted that due to
  timezone differences, it might indeed be necessary to compress the talks
  into fewer slots, and adding extra opportunities for interaction may be
  a way to fill the remaining time for on-site participants.
* Lorenzo also pointed out that some people might not be comfortable with
  their talk being reported and broadcast all over the world.
* It is unclear how a hybrid conference should be funded, although there
  are various possibilites; it would be natural to make the physically
  present people pay more.
* Jakob Rehof mentioned a discussion at the IFIP group regarding the
  future of conferences.  Moshe Vardi had argued that computer science has
  created a monster of constant travel, by entangling publications with
  conferences -- and it's a monster we need to get rid of.  A hybrid model
  for conferences may be a good way to migrate into an unknown future.

Overall, several people noted that the community is now at a time of rapid
change, and we will need to evaluate both the various forms of virtual
conferences that are held this year and the new conference designs
emerging in the coming period.  We have new ways to communicate, and have
to explore the available options to use this at its full potential.
It will likely take years to find the ideal new model.

7. Closing of the meeting by Delia Kesner.

Delia closed the meeting with thanks to the reviewers, PC chair Zena
Ariola and PC members, the organizing team and conference chair Stefano
Guerrini, workshop chair Giulio Manzonetto, IJCAR conference chair Kaustuv
Chaudhuri, FSCD steering committee chair and session chairs, FSCD SC
workshop chair Jamie Vicary, FSCD publicity chair Sandra Alves, general
meeting secretary Cynthia Kop, electronic vote organizers Damiano Mazza
and Carsten Fuhs, LIPIcs, EasyChair and the sponsors, and last but not
least, all the invited speakers and paper authors.

8. Announcement of election outcome

After the vote was completed (a day after the general meeting), the
results were announced via e-mail:
* Silvia Ghilezan scored 144 points.
* Stefano Guerrini scored 140 points.
* Giulio Manzonetto scored 132 points.
* Temur Kutsia scored 114 points.

The points come from the borda method: 4 points for the first preference,
3 points for the second, 2 points for the third one and 1 point for the
last one.

Silvia Ghilezan and Stefano Guerrini were elected to the SC.

